1. B, C, F. The ternary operator (? :) evaluates only one of the two right-hand expressions at
runtime, so option A is incorrect. A switch statement may contain at most one optional
default statement, making option B correct. The post-increment operator increments the
variable and returns the original value, making option C correct. The logical operator (|)
operator will evaluate both operands, while the disjunctive short-circuit (||) operator will
only evaluate the right-hand side of the expression if the left-hand side evaluates to
false. Therefore, they may produce different results if the left operand is true, and
option D is incorrect. Option E is incorrect as the complement operator (!) is applied to
boolean values. Finally, option F is correct and allows the assignment operator to be used in
a conditional expression, such as part of a loop condition.
2. E. This code does not compile because print() attempts to reference the sb variable.
However, that variable is only in scope for the if statement. Since the code does not compile,
option E is correct. If println() were inside the if statement, option C would be correct.
3. A. The service locator contains a ServiceLoader call to the load() method to look up,
which is option A.
4. C. You can’t use generics with a primitive, so it should be Supplier<Double>. This makes
option C the answer.
5. D. Line x1 does not compile because of an assignment and value mismatch. The r1 variable
is a Runnable expression. While there is an ExecutorService.submit() that takes
a Runnable expression, it returns Future<?>, since the return type is void. This type is
incompatible with the Future<Stream> assignment without an explicit cast, leading to a
compiler error. Next, line x4 does not compile. The parallelStream() method is found
in the Collection interface, not the Stream interface. Due to these two compilation
errors, option D is the correct answer.
6. C. The filter() method passes two of the three elements of the stream through to
the terminal operation. This is redundant, since the terminal operation checks the same
Predicate. There are two matches with the same value, so both anyMatch() and
allMatch() return true, and option C is correct.
7. D. The service provider interface clearly needs to be recompiled, since that’s where the
change occurs. The service provider also needs to be recompiled because it implements the
interface. Finally, the consumer needs to be recompiled because it calls the interface. The service locator does not need to be recompiled, as it only knows the service provider interface
name rather than its method signature. Since three require recompilation, option D is correct.
8. D. The application does not compile, so options A, B, and C are incorrect. The
ElectricBass class does not compile, since it inherits two default methods with the
same signature. Even though the class is marked abstract, it still must override this
default method. Since ElectricBass fails to do so, option D is correct.
9. E. A race condition occurs when two threads attempt to execute the same process. If not
properly handled, it can lead to an undesirable result, such as two users both being able to
create an account with the same login. For this reason, option E is correct.
10. C, D. Option A is incorrect because Comparable is implemented in the class being compared. To be useful, such a class must have instance variables to compare, ruling out a
lambda. By contrast, a Comparator is often implemented with a lambda. Option B is incorrect because compareTo() is the method in Comparable. Option C is correct because
these methods have different parameters but the same return type, with the same rules for
ordering elements. Option D is correct because a Comparator doesn’t need to be implemented by the class being compared. It can be passed to the sort() method as a parameter. Option E is incorrect because comparators are not required to be consistent with the
equals() method. For example, two objects that are equivalent in terms of equals() may
be sorted differently.
11. A. The method reference on line x is supposed to define a Function. The Shield interface
does define a single abstract method. However, that method has a void return type, which
is not compatible with Function. Line y does compile since addDragon() has both a
parameter and return type. Option A is the answer, since only line x fails to compile.
12. A, C. The javac command uses -p and --module-path to supply the module path.
There are two valid long forms of the classpath option: -classpath and --class-path.
Options A and C match these.
13. C. Line 15 does not compile because the type of a variable cannot be inferred when the value
is null. Line 18 does not compile because the type cannot be changed once the variable is
declared. In this case, an int cannot be assigned to a String variable. Since the change or
removal of these two lines allows the code to compile, option C is correct.
14. D. The code compiles without issue, so options E and F are incorrect. Note that line p2
accesses a static method using an instance reference, which is discouraged but permitted in
Java. First, a varargs int array of [0,0] is passed to the swing() method. The try block
throws ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException, since the third element is requested, and
the size of the array is two. For this reason, the print() statement in the try block is
not executed. Next, since ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException is a subclass of
RuntimeException, the RuntimeException catch block is executed and 2 is printed.
The rest of the catch blocks are skipped, since the first one was selected. The finally
block then executes and prints 4. Finally, control is returned to the main() method
without an exception being thrown, and 5 is printed. Since 245 is printed, option D is the
correct answer.
15. C. Line 10 does not compile because line 9 is missing a semicolon (;) at the end of it. A
semicolon is required after a list of enum values if the enum contains anything besides the list
of values. Line 20 does not compile because the enum name is missing before the enum value
green. For these two reasons, option C is correct.
16. D. The stillMoreChoices() method is a common approach to retrieve zero or one
records, which works for any SELECT statement that has an int in the first column. If
the SELECT statement has a function like count(*) or sum(*) in the first column, there
will always be a row in the ResultSet, so moreChoices() works as well. The method
choices() produces an exception at runtime regardless of the query, because rs.next()
is not called before any values are read. Therefore, option D is the answer.
17. C. This code runs the loop six times, adding an hour to z each time. However, the first time
is the repeated hour from daylight saving time. The time zone offset changes, but not the
hour. This means the hour only increments five times. Adding that to 01:00 gives us 06:00.
Since the time zone changes as well, option C is correct.
18. B. When using a variable in a subclass, Java uses the reference type to determine the variable
to use. Option A would be correct if the size variables were treated like method overriding,
since all of the objects in the main() method are instances of Light. Instead, the reference
type is used. The variables v1 and v2 are of reference type Light, so 5 is selected. Likewise,
the variable v3 is of type Wave, so 7 is used. The output is 5,5,7, making option B correct.
19. G. Options A, B, C, D, and F are decoys. However, this question is tricky because
prepareCall() returns a CallableStatement. While it can be stored in a Statement,
the setInt() method is no longer available, making option G the answer.
20. B, E. The == operator checks if two references point to the same object, which is not the case
here. By contrast, records provide a default equals() method to compare the values of all
fields. The former is false here, and the latter is true, making option B one answer. Also, a
record provides a useful toString() implementation, making option E the other answer.
21. E. A teeing() collector takes three parameters. Since one is missing, the code does not
compile because of the teeing() call and option E is the answer.
22. A, D. Chicken and Egg must be subclasses of First since interfaces, enums, and records
can’t extend a class. This gives us option A as one of the answers. Since the permits clause
is not specified, Chicken and Egg may or may not be nested classes, but they must be in the
same file as First. Therefore, option D is the other answer.
23. A, E. A try block can have zero or more catch blocks and zero or one finally blocks,
but must be accompanied by at least one of these blocks. For these reasons, options B, D, and
F are incorrect, and option E is correct. A finally block must appear after the last catch
block, if there are any, making option C incorrect and option A correct.
24. C. The code compiles and runs without exception, making options E and F incorrect. The
question is testing your knowledge of variable scope. The teeth variable is static in
the Alligator class, meaning the same value is accessible from all instances of the class,
including the static main() method. The static variable teeth is incremented each
time the constructor is called. Note that the constructor uses this to access a static variable, which is bad practice but allowed.
Since teeth is a local variable within the snap() method, the argument value is used, but
changes to the local variable do not affect the static variable teeth. The local variable
teeth is not used after it is decremented, so the decrement operation has no meaningful
effect on the program flow or the static variable teeth. Since the constructor is called
twice, with snap() executed after each constructor call, the output printed is 1 2, making
option C the correct answer.
25. E. The ServiceLoader.load() method needs to be called to get an instance before
calling stream(). Since this call is missing, option E is correct.
26. D, E. Each option presents a potential override of the passed() method, since the method
signature is the same. Options A, B, and C are incorrect because the method reduces the visibility of the protected method version declared in the parent class. Option F is incorrect,
as the parent version of passed() is abstract and cannot be invoked. That leaves options
D and E as valid overrides of this method.
27. D. The first thing to notice is that indent(0) matches the indentation of a text block and
then normalizes line breaks. Since sly has the closing triple quotes (""") on the same line as
text, it does not have a trailing line break. Therefore, lines 35 and 39 print true while line
43 prints false.
Next, strip() gets rid of any leading or trailing whitespace. The last text block does not
have either, which means lines 36 and 40 print false, while line 44 prints true.
Finally, stripIndent() only removes incidental whitespace. None of these text blocks
has any, making lines 37, 41, and 45 print true. Since three lines print false, option D is
the answer.
28. A, C, E. Option B is incorrect as abstract classes allow any of the access modifiers. Option
D is incorrect because interfaces do not have constructors. Option F is incorrect because
neither abstract classes nor interfaces can be marked final. Options A, C, and E are true
statements.
29. C, E. In option A, the assignment operator (=) incorrectly comes after the multiplication
(*) operator. In option B, the short-circuit logical operator (&&) incorrectly comes after the
division (/) operator. In option D, the equality operator (==) incorrectly comes after the multiplication (*) operator. In option F, the not equals operator (!=) incorrectly comes after the
relational operators, (<= and >=). This leaves options C and E as the correct answers. For
these answers, it may help to remember that the modulus operator (%), multiplication operator (*), and division operator (/) have the same operator precedence.
30. B, C, E. The constructors declared by options A, D, and F compile without issue. Option B
does not compile. Since there is no call to a parent constructor or constructor in the same
class, the compiler inserts a no-argument super() call as the first line of the constructor.
Because Big does not have a no-argument constructor, the no-argument constructor
Trouble() does not compile. Option C also does not compile because super() and
this() cannot be called in the same constructor. Finally, option E does not compile. There is
no matching constructor that can take a String followed by a long value.
31. C. Line 13 does not modify the value of x because Path is immutable and x is not
reassigned to the new value. On line 14, the resolve() method is called using y as the
input argument. If the parameter passed to the resolve() method is absolute, then that
value is returned, causing the first println() method call to output /dance/move.txt.
On line 15, the absolute path is concatenated with the relative path, printing
/dance/move.txt/./song/../note at runtime. For these reasons, option C is correct.
32. B. This is a correct example of using lambdas. The code creates an ArrayList with three
elements. Both lambdas are correct. The code removes any negative numbers and prints the
remaining two numbers, 0 and 5, making option B correct.
33. B. The reverse() method is just there to mislead you since sort() will reorder regardless
of the original state. Remember that String values sort alphabetically rather than by
number. Therefore, 01 sorts before 1, and option B is correct.
34. D. This code attempts to use two terminal operations, forEach() and count(). Only one
terminal operation is allowed, so the code does not compile, and option D is correct.
35. C. While shoe3 goes out of scope after the shopping() method, the "croc" object is
referenced by shoe1, and therefore cannot be garbage collected. Similarly, the "sandal"
object is now referenced by shoe2. No variables reference the "flip flop" object, so it is
eligible to be garbage collected. Finally, the Shoes object created in the main() method is
also eligible for garbage collection, since there are no saved references to it. For these reasons,
option C is correct.
36. A, E. Line 24 does not compile because arrays use length. It is ArrayList that uses
size(). All of the other lines compile, making option A correct. It is permitted to split up
the brackets, [], in the 2D array declaration on line 20. The code is also allowed to use
crossword.length as the loop condition on line 22, although this is not a good idea for
a nested array. Instead, the inner loop should reference crossword[i].length. The array
starts out with all two hundred of the cells initialized to the default value for an int of 0.
Both loops iterate starting at 0 and stopping before 10, which causes only half of the array to
be set to 'x'. The other half still has the initial default value of 0, making option E correct.
37. D. In options A and B, the stream pipeline attempts to call entrySet() on it. However this
method is only defined on Map, which makes these two options incorrect. Options C, E, and
F are incorrect because the second-to-last line is map(), instead of flatMap(). It doesn’t
make sense to sort the Stream generated by map() and the code does not compile. By contrast, option D is correct. It creates a Set of matching String objects. It then builds a map
where the key represents whether they match. Next, the code gets the list of all matching
values, turns it into a Stream, and uses flatMap() to turn it back into individual objects.
Finally, the code sorts in descending order and turns the result back into a String.
38. E. The code compiles without issue. The text Dog Day: is not properly escaped and
includes letters, such as o, which are invalid patterns. Therefore, the code prints an exception
at runtime, making option E correct. If the values were properly escaped, then option C
would be correct.
39. D. A long cannot contain a number with decimal points, preventing min1 from compiling.
When declaring multiple variables in the same statement, the type is only declared once.
Therefore, max3 does not compile. Underscores in numeric expressions are allowed as long
as they are between two digits, making the line with min5 and max5 incorrect. Since three
lines have compiler errors, the answer is option D. The L suffix is valid, as is having multiple
underscores in a row.
40. E. The public modifier allows access from the same class, package, subclass, or even classes
in other packages, while the static modifier allows access without an instance of the class.
For these reasons, option E is the correct answer. Option A is incorrect because class is
not a modifier; it is a keyword. Option B is incorrect because the default keyword is for
interface methods and switch statements, not class variables. Option C is incorrect because
final is not related to access, and package access limits to the package. Finally, option D is
incorrect because instance is not a Java keyword or modifier. Further, protected prevents all classes outside the package other than subclasses from accessing the variable.
41. D. When the arrays are the same, the compare() method returns 0, while the mismatch()
method returns -1. This narrows it down to option C or option D. When the arrays are different, mismatch() returns the index of the first element that is different. In our case, this is
index 2, making option D correct. By contrast, the compare() method would return a negative number if filling in the third blank since 'i' is smaller than 'o'.
42. F. The readObject() method returns an Object instance, which must be
explicitly cast to Cruise in the second try-with-resources statement. For this reason,
the code does not compile. If the explicit cast were added, the code would compile but
throw a NotSerializableException at runtime, since Cruise does not implement
the Serializable interface. For this reason, option F is correct. If both of these issues
were fixed, then the code would run and print 4,null. The schedule variable is marked
transient, so it defaults to null when deserialized, while numPassengers is assigned
the value it had when it was serialized. Remember that on deserialization, the constructors
and instance initializers are not executed.
43. E. The first time the inner for loop is executed, it accesses sides[i] where i is equal to
sides.length. Since the maximum element is indexed as sides.length-1, this results
in an IndexOutOfBoundsException, making option E correct. Also, notice that there
are no braces {} around the inner for loop; therefore, even without the exception, the
most lines this code would print would be one, since there’s only one println() statement
executed.
44. B. This code is not a functional interface because it has three abstract methods: fun(), and
game(), and toy(). Removing two of these three methods would cause the code to compile, leaving it with a single abstract method. Therefore, option B is the answer.
45. B. Lines 10–12 created a map with two key/value pairs. Line 14 does not add to the map,
since the key 2 is present. Line 15 adds a third key/value to the map. At this point, the map
contains {1=4, 2=8, 3=9}. Line 17 replaces the values with one higher than the key, and
the map contains {1=2, 2=3, 3=4}. The stream on lines 19–23 goes through the map and
sorts ascendingly by key. It gets the lowest key from that sort, which is 1. Then it prints the
value that goes with that key, which is 2. This makes option B the answer.
46. B. Java starts out by looking for a properties file with the requested locale. In this case, the
requested locale is the fr language, which it finds with toothbrush_fr.properties.
For this reason, the default locale of es_MX is ignored, and the first value for color printed
is violette. Next, it looks for a value for type property. Since it doesn’t find it in the first
properties file, it checks the default toothbrush.properties, where it does find it, and
prints generic. For these reasons, option B is correct.
47. A, B, F. An overriding method cannot declare any new or broader checked exceptions than
the overridden method. For this reason, options C, D, and E are incorrect. Option A is correct
because FileNotFoundException is a narrower exception than IOException. Option
B is also correct because new unchecked exceptions are allowed. Option F is correct because
not throwing any exceptions is also permitted in overridden methods.
48. A, B, C. All of the compilation issues with this code involve access modifiers. First, interface
methods cannot be marked protected. This causes a compilation error on line h1, making
option A correct. Next, lines h2 and h3 both override the interface method to be package
access. Since this reduces the implied visibility of protected, the overrides are invalid and
neither line compiles. Therefore, options B and C are also correct. Line h4 is valid. An object
can be implicitly cast to a superclass or inherited interface. Finally, lines h5 and h6 will
compile without issue but independently throw a ClassCastException and a
NullPointerException at runtime, respectively.
49. F. When summing int primitives, the return type is also an int. Since a long is larger, you
can assign the result to it, so line 6 is correct. All the primitive stream types use long as the
return type for count(). Therefore, the code compiles, and option E is incorrect. When
actually running the code, line 7 throws an IllegalStateException because the stream
has already been used. Both sum() and count() are terminal operations, and only one
terminal operation is allowed on the same stream. Therefore, option F is the answer.
50. E. Unnamed modules are always on the classpath. Both automatic and named modules are
on the module path. Named modules always contain a module-info file, but automatic
modules never do. Option E is correct, as it meets both these criteria.